The concertina29htt files have two concertina 
buttonboard layouts, one spread, the other compact, 
planned by Mark L. Vines for playing George Secor's 
29-Tone High Tolerance Temperament, a fabulous 
near-just, non-equal well temperament included in 
the Scala freeware archive under the filename 
secor29htt.scl, best represented in Sagittal High 
Tolerance Temperament notation (SAHTT). Among many 
virtues, this temperament allows otonal ogdoads to 
odd limit 15 in six key signatures. It has three 
chains of tempered "fifth" (near 3/2) intervals 
plus one inserted note.

Both spread & compact versions have similar 
features. Their common drawback is that playing the 
notes of the scale in sequence requires raw, brute 
memorization, as the layout provides no clue to the 
sequential order. The JPG file offers the best view 
of the compact arrangement, while the PDF offers 
the best view of the spread layout.

In both versions: Left- & right-hand manuals are 
mirror images. The notes are grouped in rows 
according to the chain of tempered fifths to which 
each belongs. In these files, color distinguishes 
the rows but, on an actual instrument, button height 
&/or surface feel would perform the same function. 
Move clockwise (on the right-hand manual) or 
counter-clockwise (on the left) along any row to 
ascend the chain of fifths. Wherever a row bends 120 
degrees, there is an otonal harmonic (or the scale's 
closest approach to one) in the key of C. Also in 
that same key signature, the neutral or least-effort 
hand position places the ring finger on 1/1, the 
middle finger on (tempered) 3/2, the index finger on 
5/4, the thumb on 7/4, while the little finger may 
rest on a rigid post that has the elevation of a 
button but plays no note.

In the compact version, every otonal harmonic (or 
close approach) in the key of C to the odd limit 15 
has a corresponding 120-degree bend in some row. In 
the spread version, rows bend only for the prime 
harmonics; 9/8 & 15/8 do not bend any row.

If an instrument has only one octave's worth of 
buttons per hand, & space to spare for sizable 
regions without buttons, the spread version may be 
preferable. If an instrument has buttons for more 
than one octave per hand, or no space to spare for 
areas without buttons, the compact version may be 
best.